
<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Tunneling Tools</h1>
</div>

---

# Reverse Proxy = HTTP/TCP/UDP tunnel 

**Note**: These slides are not to be studied. They are presented for reference if you get curious about other similar tools.

These services help you expose a local server to the internet.

Here are my observations trying the most updated ways as of 2025.

None of this is part of the curriculum. It exists to help give you and myself an overview. 

---

# VSCode

Using the Ports tab in the terminal.

Cons:

* (-) Requires VSCode

* (-) Requires signing in to Github. 

* (-) Requires Microsoft authentication (wouldn't work in Postman).

---

# Ngrok

Used to be a great product. Has a great reputation.

But the free version has become very limited (only HTTP, no pure TCP) and you need to approve a prompt in the browser every time you start a tunnel. Only paid users can turn off the prompt.

---

# Serveo

Works well and with WebSockets. Possiblity to register a subdomain so you can always access it at `anders.serveo.net` for instance.

Cons: 

* (-) Is often down.

https://serveo.net/

Open-source alternative to run your own instance (haven't tried it): https://github.com/antoniomika/sish


---

# Localhost.run

Cons:

* (-) You get a QR code instead of a link. You only get a permanent link if you sign up.

https://localhost.run/

---

# Pingy

* (-) The tunnel lasts for 60 minutes.

http://rnlbp-2a09-5e41-a15-820-ad8f-7c4b-be67-65f3.a.free.pinggy.link

---

# LocalTunnel

Works best out of the test. Easiest command to remember: `lt --port 8080` after globally installing `npm install -g localtunnel`.

You can even do the following to get a custom subdomain: `lt --port 8080 --subdomain <my_subdomain>`.

Use lowercase for subdomains. If the subdomain is occupied it will give you a random URL. 

https://theboroer.github.io/localtunnel-www/

**More Tips**:

In the browser others might be prompted for a password which will be the IP address of the one creating the tunnel. Find it with: 

```bash
$ curl -4 ifconfig.me
```

If possible, use it in Postman rather than the browser. 

