<div class="title-card">
    <h1>System Integration - Introduction</h1>
</div>

---

# What is Systems Integration

## **Zooming into the parts where systems integrate**

* How to make systems communicate. 

* Considering different architectures, services, technologies and protocols.

* Understanding the pros and cons of each approach.

* Working together and documenting systems because how else can others integrate with those systems?

---

# About the course

## This week

[About the course](https://github.com/anderslatif/Kea_SOFT_System_Integration_2025_Spring/blob/main/00._Course_Material/00._Meta_Course_Material/about_the_course.md)

## Next week

About the exam

Introduction to tooling (be present for this)

---

# In short: SI vs. DLS

* SI: Creating many short examples of integrations throughout the semester

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Systems_thinking

* DLS: Creating a single large system that is fleshed out


---


# Create your own repository

This repository will be used throughout the semester for all the assignments. Name it accordingly.

You are not required to use GitHub.

Open the repository in any editor / IDE of your liking.

---

# Case: when would you integrate systems as a **business**

*What does it mean to integrate?*

*Where are these systems?* 

*Who is integrating them?* 

*Who is exposing them?*

---

# Who are you integrating with?

* 1st party: You or your company.

* 2nd party: A direct, trusted partner such as another business.

* 3rd party: An external entity. 

---

# Black box, grey box, white box

### Error Handling

- **White box**: Full access to error logs.  

- **Grey box**: Error codes, possibly documented in a manual.  

- **Black box**: Only status codes or generic error messages.  

### Access to Source Code  

- **White box**: Full access; can modify the code.  

- **Grey box**: Limited control over the system.  

- **Black box**: No source code access.  

---

# Business-to-Business (B2B) integration

* **Third-party System Integration** You want to integrate with a system that isn't yours.

* **Software-as-a-Service Integration (SaaS)**: You need to connect your system with SaaS platforms like Salesforce, Slack, or HubSpot.

* **Enterprise Application Integration (EAI)** You want separate services within your business environment.

---

# Legacy Integrations

* SOAP

* RMI / RPC

    - Exception: https://grpc.io/ (RPC is gaining is back in a new form)

* IRC

* RSS

---

<div class="exercise-card">
    <h1>Let's take a quiz in Teams</h1>
</div>
 

Unfortunately quizzes are built on Microsoft Forms and you can only take a quiz once. 

The quizzes try to simulate knowledge relevant for the exam.

---

<div class="exercise-card">
    <h1>Exercise - Get Google Home</h1>
</div>

Write code that gets the Google homepage as a HTML file (index.html) locally on your computer. 

You have 3 minutes!

---

<div class="exercise-card">
    <h1>Exercise - Get Google Home - Possible Solution</h1>
</div>

One possible solution is cURL. 

```sh 
#!/bin/bash

curl https://www.google.com/ > index.html
```


*Why do you think I like this solution?*

---

<div class="exercise-card">
    <h1>Exercise - Conclusion</h1>
</div>

Don’t choose a solution just because it is familiar. 

From now on, make time for researching approaches. 

With AI tools, be careful about the way you prompt. Same with Search Engines.

This course aims to provide more tools in your tool box and give you a better understanding of the pros and cons of each tool.

---

# Text-based data formats

I might call them data formats or data files for short.

*Which can you think of?*

Let's work with them.

---

# Data formats

* Raw binary / raw text

* JSON

* YAML

* XML

* CSV

* Protobuf

*What is the file extension for each? Do you know more?*

---

<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Payment Provider - Exercise</h1>
</div>

---

<div class="exercise-card">
    <h1>Payment Provider - Exercise Assignment</h1>
</div>

You are a banking SaaS (like Stripe) and want to provide a way for clients to integrate with your system. 

*What are all the ways of integration you can think of?*

*How will you do it? How would you not do it? Why?*

**List all the service you would expose.**


We will do it as a pair exercise. Spend 10 min. discussing. 

---

<div class="exercise-card">
    <h1>Payment Provider - What did you consider?</h1>
</div>

I am not asking for the solutions yet but:

*What factors did you consider?*

*What would be important to your business?*

*What would be important to your clients?*

---

<div class="exercise-card">
    <h1>Payment Provider - Things to consider</h1>
</div>

* Security (*Security in whose implementation?*)

* Ease of integration.

* Flexibility for developers. 

* Customization. (*Do we even want that?*)

---

# API

* (+) Very flexible. Each customer can built their own widget from scratch. 

* (-) Difficult. WebShop creators aren’t programmers.

* (-) Each client will be able to see ALL customer credentials. Leaks can happen which lessens trust in your product. 

* (-) Easy to get wrong. But even if the client is to blame, it will sully your company’s reputation in the public eye.

---

# Offer plugins/extensions

For various E-commerce / CMS systems.

---

# Bank redirects

Pop-up / redirect to a new domain that eventually redirects back to your site.

* (-) Takes customers away from your website.

* (-) Might make customers uneasy.  

* (+) Easy to integrate. 

https://stripe.com/docs/payments/bank-redirects

---

# iframe

* (-) Less flexible.

* (+) Requires relatively little development. 

* (+) Keeps one look for all customers which:

  1. earns trust (customers recognize your brand)
  
  2. recognizability (from developers looking to integrate) 

How Stripe does it: https://www.paymentiframe.com/

Can be customized somewhat. Try appending `&t=Pay Me` to the URL.

---

# Webhooks

Also known as HTTP callbacks. 

Stripe uses webhooks for asynchronous updates. Use cases:

- Customer’s bank confirms a payment.

- Customer disputes a charge. 

- Recurring payment succeeds. 

- Subscription payment processing. 

https://stripe.com/docs/webhooks

---

# SDK

For web frameworks develop a component library that can be imported. 

Provide code samples and thorough guides. 

A SDK differs by providing clear guidance on how to integrate with your system.

---

# Less is more in integration

*Why are fewer options better for the company?*

*Why are fewer options better for the integrator?*

---

# In general, less is better for the company

* Easier to maintain.

* Easier to support.

* Easier to document.

* Easier to test.

* Easier to secure.

* Easier to scale.

* Easier to market.

* Cheaper overall.

---

# In general, less is better for the integrator

These are things you don't need to remember. 

Sociological theories reworded for relevance:

**Hick's Law** (Choice Paralysis)

> Too many (integration) options overwhelm users.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hick's_law

**Pareto Principle** (80/20 rule)

> 80% of users will use only 20% of the available integrations.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pareto_principle


But Stripe actively offers all of the solutions mentioned in the previous slides. 

*Why do you think Stripe bothers?*

---

# Why Stripe bothers

* Quick integration translates to quicker sales (profit). 

* Smooth integration creates happier developers. 

* Difficult integration means potentially losing clients to competitors. 

---

<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Time for some hands-on...</h1>
</div>

---

<div class="exercise-card">
    <h1>Let's create a `.gitignore`</h1>
</div>

The `.gitignore` should include templates for `Node.js` and `Python`.

For things unrelated to this project, I recommend creating a global `.gitignore` file.

*What could that be?*

---

<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Modules are a type of integration!</h1>
</div>

---

# Modules are a type of integration

Hands-on...

---

<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Cheap static website - Exercise</h1>
</div>

---

<div class="exercise-card">
    <h1>Cheap static website - Exercise</h1>
</div>

A client has a static website that they need to be hosted. 

They don't care about the URL because they are a cheapskate and only care about saving money. 

Discuss in groups:

*How do you do it?*

---

<div class="exercise-card">
    <h1>Cheap static website - Possible suggestions</h1>
</div>

* Simple home server setup (Raspberry Pi etc.)

* CDN

* Azure Storage / S3 Bucket (AWS)

* Github Pages - ghpages script

*Pros and cons?*

