
<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Client and Server</h1>
</div>

---

# WebSocket

WebSocket is a communication protocol that provides full-duplex communication channels over a single TCP connection.

Defined by [RFC 6455](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6455)

---

# WebSocket vs. HTTP

* HTTP is built on top of TCP. 

* WebSocket is built on top of TCP.

* WebSocket is a separate protocol from HTTP but it starts with a HTTP handshake to establish the connection. Then it switches to the WebSocket protocol.

---

# The library socket.io is necessarily WebSocket

[Socket.io](https://socket.io/) is a library that exists for [many programming languages](https://socket.io/docs/v3/).

A discussion on the topic, but be critical of what is being said: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10112178/differences-between-socket-io-and-websockets

Compared to straight WebSocket, Socket.io makes it easier to work with multiple events, rooms, and namespaces.

Per default, it tries to establish a WebSocket connection, but if it fails, it falls back HTTP long-polling:

https://socket.io/docs/v4/engine-io-protocol/#transports

They've started supporting [WebTransport](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebTransport) and might move away from WebSocket in the future:

https://socket.io/get-started/webtransport


---

# Real-time communication?

Many resources define WebSocket as a protocol for real-time communication.

Let's think critically about it. *Isn't HTTP just as "real-time"? What does it even mean to be real-time?*

---

# Real-time communication constraints

[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real-time_computing) defines three categories of real-time constraints:


## Hard – missing a deadline is a total system failure.

Car engine control systems, medical systems (pacemakers), industrial process controllers (assembly line).

## Firm – infrequent deadline misses are tolerable, but may degrade the system's quality of service. The usefulness of a result is zero after its deadline.

What fits here can be argued about.

## Soft – the usefulness of a result degrades after its deadline, thereby degrading the system's quality of service.

Video streaming. Online gaming. 

---

# There is no standard definition for what it means to be real-time

Scouring multiple sources, these general numbers can be extrapolated:

**Real-time**: Delay less than 2 seconds. 

**Near real-time**: Delay of 2 - 10 seconds. 

**Batch processing (~6 - 12 hours)**  

Also known as Deferred Processing.

But look at this:

> Real-time alerts: 

> Munin polls your servers once every 5 minutes. Don't wait any longer to be notified when something goes wrong

https://munin-monitoring.org/

---

# My opinion about using the term "real-time"

To me, the term real-time borders on the line of being a buzzword.

It doesn't have a clear definition and doesn't convey much information.

Being "real-time is not a defining characteristic of WebSockets, as SSE and HTTP long-polling can achieve the same result.

But most resources sell WebSocket as a real-time protocol and it often the first thing they mention.

This above is my opinion. You are free to form your own.

---

# WebSocket *is* simple!

Beware: Many sources says that the pro of SSE is that it has a simpler implementation than WebSockets. Looking at implementations in many languages I would have to disagree.

---

# Server-sent events vs. WebSockets recap

WebSockets are bidirectional. Use SSE when you want the server to update the client but don’t want to receive anything from clients. 

Websockets can transmit both binary data and UTF-8. SSE only UTF-8.



