<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Modules</h1>
</div>

---

# Importing a module is the smallest unit of integration

---

<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Modules in Javascript</h1>
</div>

---

# HTML with classic scripts

Create three files:

1. `index.html`
2. `index.js`
3. `myModule.js`

Create a class in MyModule.js:

```javascript
class MyModule {
    constructor() {
        console.log('MyModule constructor');
    }
}
```

In the HTML add:

```html
    <script src="./index.js"></script>
```

*How would you import a script into another in HTML?*

---

# HTML with classic scripts - Solution

In the `index.html` add:

```html
    <script src="./myModule.js"></script>
```

In the `index.js` add:

```javascript
const classA = new ClassA();
```

---

# HTML with modules

Copy the previous example. 

*Can you solve it using ES modules?*

---

# HTML with modules - Solution

In the `index.html` remove the `./myModule.js` script and add:

```html
    <script type="module" src="./index.js"></script>
```

In the `myModule.js` add:

```javascript
export class MyModule {
    constructor() {
        console.log('MyModule constructor');
    }
}
```

In the `index.js` add:

```javascript
import { MyModule } from './myModule.js';
```

---

# Node.js commonJS

This is the classic way to import and exporting modules in Node.js and works out of the box.

Check the example. 

---

# Node.js ES Modules

Requires you to have a package.json file with `"type": "module"` or to use the `.mjs` extension.

With Node.js, remember that you MUST add the `.js` extension when importing to it otherwise you get a MIME type text/html error. You can omit it for commonJS.

---

# **In this course we will only use ES modules**

*Why do you think it's particularly important in this course?*

Even if code was generated for you, it is your job to look at it critically and change it to fit the goal of the course.

---

# We care ease of integration in system integration

With ES modules we can reuse files in the frontend and backend. 

We can reuse them for other JavaScript runtime environments.

Remember that integration is the core of the course and modules are the smallest unit of integration.

---

<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Modules in Python</h1>
</div>

---

# Every file a module

Every Python file is a module.

Have you ever seen this:

```python
if __name__ == '__main__':
    print('This is the main file')
    run_main()
```

This allows you to define what happens if you either:

1. Run the file directly

2. Import the file

But exporting modules in subfolders in Python is not straightforward. Let's have a look.

---

# Define a `main_importer.py` file

In `main_file.py` define:

```python
def run_main():
    print("Running main_file.py")
```
And in `main_importer.py` import it:

```python
import main
```

*Will it run the print statement?*

---

# Create two classes

<!-- Based on this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cONc0NcKE7s -->

Create a nested folder (for instance for `python_modules`) called `my_module` and add two files:

`file_one.py` and `file_two.py`.

In `file_one.py` add:

```python
class ClassA:
    def __init__(self):
        print('ClassA constructor')
```

In `file_two.py` add:

```python
class ClassB:
    def __init__(self):
        print('ClassB constructor')
```

---

# Create a main file

Create `main.py` in the root folder and add:

```python
import my_module

print(my_module)
```

*What will be printed?*

**Conclusion**: Python *can* import a subfolder. 

---

# Import a class in the main file

In `main.py` write:

```python
import my_module

classA = my_module.file_one.ClassA()


print(my_module.__file__)
```
**Conclusion**: Python is able to import a folder *but* can't just find the files or their content.

---

# Accessing the file

Write this in `main.py`:

```python
from my_module import file_one

print(file_one)
```

**Conclusion 1**: As seen in the print, every file is of type `<module>`.

**Conclusion 2**: You can import a file from a subfolder by doing so explicitly.

---

# Accessing the content of the folder

In `main.py` write:

```python
from my_module.file_one import ClassA

classA = ClassA()
```

*Try to do it with the other class*

**Conclusion**: In order to import files from subfolders, you need to import the file first.

---

# __init__.py

Create an `__init__.py` file in the `my_module` folder.

Try to add a print statement in it and in `main.py` import it with:

```python
import my_module
```

**Conclusion**: Python looks for an `__init__.py` file and if present it is executed as soon as the folder is imported.

(In the same way that a constructor runs as soon as our class is instantiated)

---

# Export the files and the content you want to export

In `__init__.py` write:

```python
from my_module.file_one import ClassA
from my_module.file_two import ClassB
```

This allows you to define exactly what you want to export from your module.

---

# Final `main.py`

The final result in `main.py` can now be simplified as:

```python
from my_module import ClassA, ClassB

ClassA()
ClassB()
```

---

<div class="exercise-card">
    <h1>Exercise - Export multiple things from the same files</h1>
</div>

In `file_one.py` add a function called `convenienceFunction` that prints `Convenient`.

How would you import it in `main.py`?


