<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Data and Modules</h1>
</div>

---

# What is a protocol?

> [In networking,] a protocol is a standardized set of rules for formatting and processing data. Protocols enable computers to communicate with one another.

https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/network-layer/what-is-a-protocol


---

# Communication Protocols

> A communication protocol is a system of rules that allows two or more entities of a communications system to transmit information...

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Communication_protocol

*Do you know some communication protocols?*

<details> 
  <summary>Hint</summary>
   Possible categories: Sound-based, Text-based, Binary
</details>

---

# Examples of communication protocols

Sound-based:

* Humans
* Morse code
    

Text-based:

* Humans

Binary:
	
* HTTP, HTTP/2, HTTP/3
* WebSockets

and more...

---

<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Encoding</h1>
</div>

---

# Text encoding: Charsets

* ASCII

* Unicode

* UTF-8 (The standard of the web).

* ISO-8859-1 (Latin-1, used in Western Europe)


---

<div class="exercise-card">
    <h1>Encoding - Decoding: Programming exercise</h1>
</div>

Encode a random string and then decode it.

Bonus points if you try in a language that isn’t your main.


---

<div class="exercise-card">
    <h1>Encoding - Decoding: Javascript solution</h1>
</div>

In the Node.js REPL or browser console:

```javascript
btoa('Hello, World!') // "SGVsbG8sIFdvcmxkIQ=="
atob('SGVsbG8sIFdvcmxkIQ==') // Hello, World!
```

How can you tell by looking at it that `SGVsbG8sIFdvcmxkIQ==` is base64 encoded?


<details>
  <summary>Answer</summary>
   They usually end in `==`, which is padding used to make the string length a multiple of 4.
   Try removing the comma. What happens?
</details>


---

<div class="exercise-card">
    <h1>Encoding - Decoding (UTF-8): Python solution</h1>
</div>

```python
encoded_string = "hallå".encode()

print(encoded_string)

decoded_string = encoded_string.decode()

print(decoded_string)
```

---

<div class="exercise-card">
    <h1>Encoding - Decoding (Base64): Python solution</h1>
</div>

```python
import base64

encoded_string = base64.b64encode(b'data to be encoded')

print(encoded_string)

decoded_string = base64.b64decode(encoded_string)

print(decoded_string)

```

---

# Text encoding vs. data encoding


Text encoding:

* Base64
* UTF-8
etc.

Data encoding:

* Protocol Buffers
* XML
* JSON

*How would you encode/decode as JSON?*

Data transformation:

* Yet another subset of encoding. (Next slide ->)

---

# Data transformation 

**Serializing**

General process of converting objects while preserving the structure into a transferable format (bytes, text, etc.) for storage or transmission.

> Serialize <-> Deserialize

**Marshalling**

A specialized form of serialization used for transferring data over a network, often with additional metadata or transformations.

> Marshalling <-> Unmarshalling

Marshalling is often simply called serialization. 

*How do you serialize in your favorite language?*


---

# Hashing

**Not** encoding. 

(The slide is here because it is often brought up during class.)

Hashing is a one-way function that takes an input and produces a fixed-size string/bytes.

With encoding you can get the original data back through decoding.


