<div class="title-card">
    <h1>Virtual Environments in Python</h1>
</div>

---

# About this slide deck

These are different ways to create virtual environments in Python with a focus on pros and cons of each.

The purpose is to argue for why we use Poetry in this course.

---

# No virtual environments

Try to run this program

```python
import emoji

print(emoji.emojize("Python is not :ambulance:"))
```

We can install it with `pip` but:

* Globally but don't want to pollute the global package space. What if projects need conflicting versions?

* Locally installed packages won't carry over to deployed servers. 

* Using Pip to install packages globally can no longer be done with Homebrew installations of Python. This is a good thing.


---

# virtualenv

virtualenv is the most basic way to define a virtual environment.

Run the `venv` module through python in the folder like this to ccreate a `myenv` environment:

```bash
$ python -m venv myenv
```

This creates the bin (binary) folder. Run activate: 
```bash
$ source ./myenv/bin/activate
```

Notice how the terminal prompt changes to indicate that you are now in a virtual environment. 

To deactivate, simply type:

```bash
$ deactivate
```

---

# virtualenv: Saving packages

```bash
$ pip freeze > requirements.txt 
```

To read from requirements: 
```bash
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

**Downside**: You must remember to freeze the requirements every time before you deploy. 

---

# pipenv

Install pipenv with pip. 

Run this in the folder:
```bash
$ pipenv install
```

```bash
$ pipenv install emoji
```

```bash
$ pipenv shell
```

Downside: Has its own non-standard Pipfile. Wouldn't it be nice to have a project file that follows the Python standard (PEP 518) and allows for creating and deploying Pip packages?

https://peps.python.org/pep-0518/

---

# poetry

Creates a toml file according to the PEP 518 standard!

```bash
$ poetry init
```

With non-interactive mode:

```bash
$ poetry init -n
```

```bash
$ poetry install
```

```bash
$ poetry shell
```

To install additional libraries:

```bash
$ poetry add <library>
```

To initialize a project with a structure that includes tests etc.

```bash
$ poetry new <project_name>
```

---

# poetry: Bonus Info

There is a new version of Poetry (3.x.x) which requires you to install the following to run `poetry shell`:

https://github.com/python-poetry/poetry-plugin-shell

For MacOS and Linux the virtual environments can be found here: `.local/share/virtualenvs`

For Windows it's probably somewhere around: `%USERPROFILE%\AppData\Local\\....`?

This is useful cause virtual environments cannot be named the same and can be deleted here. 
